Let's look overall,
did we improve performance?
We made a whole bunch of changes.
We made server changes to simulate
a faster network on a CDN.
We made a bunch of asset changes
deferring stuff we didn't need and
optimizing stuff we did.
We compressed assets, we specified
the layout, we did a whole bunch
of things that improved the different
metrics, but how did that actually work?
Well, if you were capturing any
of the field data along the way,
you could take that and
paste it into the dashboard.
When I did it before and after this
course, as I was making changes,
here's roughly what I saw before and
after.
Before we had a really high LCP.
And a really dynamic
commutative layout shift.
Lots of stuff was happening.
The first input delay wasn't
really relevant for the site,
we didn't load obnoxious
amounts of JavaScript.
And the first contentful
paint was pretty fast.
We got a little bit faster.
We saw huge dramatic
improvements when we fixed LCP.
We greatly reduced the time
it took to deliver all
of the assets to get to
that important metric.
And we crushed CLS down to almost
0 by specifying those sizes.
Now, based on our earlier
examples of how we
tie this together with business analytics,
well, there was a strong
correlation between
the largest contentful paint and
what was it?
The largest contentful paint and
the bounce rate and
the cumulative layout shift and
the session time.
And so if we improve these things,
what would we forecast for
the future of those metrics?
Well, the session time should go up.
They'll spend way less time being
frustrated by layout shifts.
And the bounce rates should go down,
we should be delivering the core content
way sooner than they were before.
And this is how these sort of
efforts need to be pitched to
the powers of your organization.
If you're trying to justify time to spend
improving the performance of your app,
you can't necessarily
sell it by saying hey,
we need to spend some time
making the site faster.
You need to sell it by saying hey,
we're gonna try and
improve the session time, we're gonna
try and reduce our bounce rates.
You're gonna do it by
improving performance.
But these are the metrics that most
business people are going to care
about more.
Now, we can authentically say how much
we're going to improve session time or
how far we're going to reduce bounce rate.
Because just like pirates don't
actually cause global warming.
We don't know how tightly
these things are correlated.
But we do know that there
is some correlation and
that we would expect
these numbers to improve
in the same general trajectory by
making performance improvements.
That will make your business
people quite happy.
Now, there's a lot of data that you'll
gather, especially from field data.
If you've been looking at the field
data from our project and
pasting it into the spreadsheet,
there's a lot of reports and those reports
are pretty high level roll up of the data,
but they're representing every single hit.
So every single time somebody hit your
page, you get something in there.
And so there's a lot of ways that
we can show data about performance
that's more helpful that reveals
more characteristics about it.
And so I wanted to show you some
more real charts from real sites and
what those things look like.
So for example, this is what's
called a flame distribution,
which is what a number of
different tools will do.
This is what it looks
like on request metrics.
A flame chart will show you
the relative performance
of how each user experienced the page.
And the size of it indicates how
many users had that experience.
So, blue is fast, everything is great.
Red is slow.
They're having a whole lot of problems.
We want big lines, because we want
lots of users to visit our site.
And we want most of it to be blue.
We want most users to
have a great experience.
Now you can project that same data over
here on the right side and say well what
was the median and 75th percentile
in 95th percentile over that time?
And see what these actually users are
across the entire time or you can project
that data over time and see how does
the median change how's the 75th change?
How's the 95th change?
Each of these will give you a different
kind of perspective into what the data
means.
Because field data is very noisy and
you need to look for the patterns.
Here's another example of
web vitals specifically.
Now web vitals largely are driven
by what Google thinks of them.
This is one of the most common and
objective measures because
Google is this gatekeeper.
And you need to make sure
that Google is happy.
So, Google has good, okay, poor ranges.
We can roughly define those and
show you how you're doing over time.
How many of your users had
each of these experiences?
You'll never have 100% of your users good.
Very unlikely, and
you'll never have 100% of your users bad.
But as long as 75% of your users
are having a good experience,
you're doing awesome.
But don't worry about making sure that
every single session is not poor.
You can't control everybody's device.
So in this case, we have a cumulative
layout shift, which is fantastic for
this particular data set.
But the LCP is honestly not good.
The median looks like it needs
improvement most of the time.
And so
this site could obviously use some work.
One of the other pieces of data that's
really interesting to capture over time,
is what makes up that time.
So if a page is taking a lot of time to do
its work, we can use some of that entry
information that we talked
about earlier in the course.
And we can chart that.
So how long did the browser
spend doing a DNS lookup?
How much did it spend
doing an SSL handshake?
How long did it spend downloading
JavaScript and then rendering JavaScript?
We can chart this information over time
to see when something starts going bad,
what was the culprit?
All right, this was our part 2.
We talked at the beginning about some
business objectives and why we did this.
We looked at each of
the web vital metrics and
some tactics on how to think about
them and how to improve them.
And we did a bunch of code demos,
and exercises.
In part 3, we're gonna talk about planning
for a more performant organization.
How do you incorporate
some of these ideas so
that you're not constantly fighting
to build a more performant website.